Test driven development.
Here's an example of a test class with a test method.
Already in the course, we've seen how to run an existing test.
We've seen how to create new tests from scratch.
Test Driven development, or TDD, is the practice of adding tests before you add your production code.
For some, especially those new to testing, this can seem odd.
We'll learn more about the technique, and note that you can mix test driven development with traditional
testing however you like into your own workflows.
TDD creates tests that specify and validate what code will do once it's created.
Here's the workflow.
You create a new test.
You add just enough implementation within it so that the code compiles.
Since we've added just enough production code for this code to compile, perhaps even having an empty
implementation.
We run the test and the test fails.
That's expected, and it's actually a very good place to start by first seeing a failing test.
If we have more confidence that the test once it passes actually means something, you then refactor
your production code until the code passes and then move on.
TDD is not simply the order of testing first and writing your production code second.
It's also a way of thinking about your projects.
Some of this you really need to practice in order to feel the results.
But what I find with more TDD experience is that you think about your new code differently, you're
more focused in your development, you create more atomic code that does just one thing.
And when you have your testing code pass, it's a more meaningful pass.
Another way to look at this flow is that you write a failing test.
You make the test pass, and then you refactor your code to meet any other goals.
You have optimization, coding standards.
ET cetera.
And then you repeat.
Let's see this in action.
We'll open up a unity project that's got a test already.
We'll use TDD to add a new test, create just enough production code for it to compile, see a failing
result, and then refactor until we have a passing result.
Here we are in a fairly empty unity project.
I've made sure that the test framework is already added in the package manager as shown earlier, and
I've copied one test in for us to begin with.
Let's take a look at that test here in edit mode.
I have one test providing coverage on the add method of a simple math class.
Let's run the test it passes.
Let's take a look at the code.
And here we see the one test we're familiar with from earlier in the presentation.
Now let's perform some test driven development as discussed here.
The idea is that if we were to expand the functionality of the math system, we have a few approaches.
We could either go create that production code without any testing and afterwards.
And afterwards maybe we add tests, or maybe we don't.
However, with test driven development, we're going to test first before we've added any production
code.
Let's see how that works.
I'll imagine I'm creating.
Let's imagine the math system needs a subtract method.
Now this subtract method doesn't exist yet, as we'll see when we look at the source code.
But let's make a test for it anyway.
I'll start by adding the test attribute.
I'll name the method with what is under test.
What's the expected result and in what situation I expect for subtract, the result would be five.
If I pass in ten and five, ten minus five is five.
To set up the test, I instantiate a new copy of my math system.
I get the result by calling the subtract method.
The red text here indicates my code editor knows there's no subtract method.
And finally, we expect our method to return a value of five.
Because I copy and pasted this from the earlier example, it says 15.
I'll change that now.
Now it's checking the proper assumption.
Now we know this is not going to compile, but let's save and return to unity.
Let's note two things one, the console window is properly showing that there's a compiler error, and
two notice in the test runner window we don't yet see our new method.
These are good things to note in TDD.
The next step is to make just enough code that it compiles.
It's very important we don't finish the implementation at this stage.
Here's the source code for our math system.
Here's the very simplest implementation I can do that gets the code to compile.
Notice that I don't finish the proper implementation.
Now in this example, it seems trivial because we know all we need to do is subtract a and b.
However, normally in test driven development, the implementation of a given method would be more complex
and take more time.
Regardless, we always stop here once we have enough to compile.
Let's look at the test.
Our code editor properly no longer shows.
Subtract and red.
Let's save and check unity.
Now we don't see any console errors.
Great.
Everything is compiling.
And now our test runner window properly shows the new test method.
Let's run all tests.
You can consider the testing of failure because one or more test methods fail.
When we look at when we select the failing method, we see some small input there we see a bit of output
text that shows why it failed.
It's expecting five, but instead it's returning zero.
Now why did we go through the motions here?
It may seem trivial, but it's an important distinction that we create a test we believe tests the proper
functionality, and we first see it fail.
That gives us a good basis to know when a proper implementation gives a pass with confidence.
Let's add the proper implementation.
Here we assume that the first parameter coming in would be larger than the second, and we simply return
and we simply return a minus b.
Let's save and run the test.
Now the test runs well and we've completed our first example of test driven development.
That's it.
Now, I know from my own experience that it took me time and practice with testing to really feel the
benefits.
While we've had a brief overview with unit testing, creating unit tests and test driven development,
I hope you're beginning to see some of the benefits that could work well for you.
Combining what you've learned here about testing with MVC architecture.
You have the tools to create projects that are more modular, scalable, optimized, robust, and dependable.
The combination of testing and good architecture is really powerful.
Thanks.